                                                                                Benjamin Lis <bl2759@columbia.edu>



ACM TechNews, Friday, October 30, 2020
ACM TechNews <technews-editor@acm.org>                                                   Fri, Oct 30, 2020 at 12:35 PM
To: Benjamin Lis <bl2759@columbia.edu>

                                          Click here to view this online




                       MEMBERNET                                                 ARCHIVES

                      CAREERNEWS                                                CONTACT US

     Welcome to the October 30, 2020 edition of ACM TechNews, providing timely information for IT
     professionals three times a week.

     ACM TechNews mobile apps are available for Android phones and tablets (click here) and for
     iPhones (click here) and iPads (click here).

     To view "Headlines At A Glance," hit the link labeled "Click here to view this online" found at the
     top of the page in the html version. The online version now has a button at the top labeled "Show
     Headlines."




     H     k      R l             G         i    C          t El           ti     D t       Aft
Hacker Releases Georgia County Election Data After
Ransom Not Paid
The Wall Street Journal
Tawnell D. Hobbs
October 28, 2020

A computer hacker publicly released election-related files from Hall County, GA, after county
officials failed to pay a ransom. The hacker labeled the released data as "example files," which
generally are used to encourage ransom payment before more-compromising information is made
public. A review of the DoppelPaymer ransomware group's website shows the hacked files contain
voter names and registration numbers and an election-equipment inventory, among other things.
The county announced the ransomware attack on Oct. 7, but has not commented about the
amount of ransom demanded. Said Brett Callow of cybersecurity firm Emsisoft, "What, if any,
other data the criminals obtained during the attack is something only they and, perhaps, Hall
County know.”


  Full Article
*May Require Paid Registration




The Algorithm That Could Get You Back in the Office
Bloomberg
Andrew Zaleski
October 27, 2020

As company offices reopen, some are using software to help them shuffle employees, schedule
meetings, map office hot spots, and practice social distancing. Maptician detects areas of high
transmission risk, such as desks placed too close together, and allows co-workers to view the map
to see if they were ever seated near a colleague who tested positive for Covid-19. Employees of
commercial real estate brokerage SquareFoot developed an algorithm to determine work rotations
for a company’s teams. Salesforce's Work.com has developed a software platform that includes a
shift-management algorithm that calculates potential building bottlenecks based on the number of
projected workers.
  Full Article




Scientists Used 3D Printer to Create World's Smallest
Boat
CNN
Amy Woodyatt
October 28, 2020

Researchers at Leiden University in the Netherlands created the world's smallest boat using an
electron microscope and a high-resolution three-dimensional (3D) printer. The 30-micrometer-
long boat was developed as part of an investigation into synthetic, self-propelled microswimmers
that could travel inside the human body to administer medical treatments, among other things. As
part of the study, the researchers created objects as small as 4 micrometers. Said Leiden's
Daniela Kraft, "We hope to learn about what is now a good design principle for creating a little
drug delivery vehicle.”


  Full Article
Raptor-Inspired Drone with Morphing Wing, Tail
EPFL (Switzerland)
October 28, 2020

A next-generation drone developed by engineers at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Lausanne (EPFL) has a feathered wing and tail for increased flight agility. The northern goshawk, a
type of raptor (bird of prey), served as the inspiration for the drone. Artificial feathers allow the
drone to adjust the shape of its wing and tail, but a propeller is used for forward thrust, which is
more efficient than flapping wings. Said EPFL's Enrico Ajanic, "Our design extracts principles of
avian agile flight to create a drone that can approximate the flight performance of raptors, but
also tests the biological hypothesis that a morphing tail plays an important role in achieving faster
turns, decelerations, and even slow flight."


  Full Article


Researchers Break Magnetic Memory Speed Record
Berkeley News
October 27, 2020

An international research team led by the French National Centre for Scientific Research developed
a new method for magnetization switching that is almost 100 times faster than state-of-the-art
spintronic devices. The researchers achieved magnetization switching, or writing information into
magnetic memory, by directing an optical pump at a photoconductive switch to convert light into
six-picosecond electrical pulses that were guided toward a magnet. This technique could pave the
way for ultrafast magnetic memory for computer chips that would retain information even when
power is off. Said the University of California, Berkeley's Jeffrey Bokor, "Such a high-speed, low-
energy spintronic device can potentially tackle the performance limitations of current processor-
level memory systems, and it could also be used for logic applications."


  Full Article


FBI Warns Ransomware Assault Threatens U.S.
Healthcare System
Associated Press
Frank Bajak
October 29, 2020

The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of Homeland Security, and Department of
Health and Human Services issued a joint alert this week that they had "credible information of an
increased and imminent cybercrime threat to U.S. hospitals and healthcare providers" in an effort
to cause "data theft and disruption of healthcare services." The alert came amid a spike in cases of
Covid-19 nationwide. At least five U.S. hospitals were hit by the ransomware attacks this week.
Attacks by an Eastern European criminal gang involved the Ryuk strain of ransomware, which
Microsoft has been working to counter. Hold Security's Alex Holden said the cybercriminals are
demanding ransoms of more than $10 million per target, and have discussed plans on the dark
web to attack more than 400 hospitals, clinics, and other medical facilities.


  Full Article


Dog Training Methods Help JHU Teach Robots to Learn
New Tricks
Johns Hopkins Hub
Jill Rosen
October 26, 2020

Computer scientists at Johns Hopkins University used positive reinforcement to show a robot how
to teach itself new tasks quickly. The training technique, often used to change a dog's behavior,
helped the robot improve its skills in a matter of days, rather than the month it previously would
have taken. The researchers used a reward system to help the robot learn from its mistakes.
When it came to stacking blocks, the robot quickly determined it would earn high points for correct
behaviors and zero points for failing to grasp a block or knocking over a stack. Said Johns Hopkins'
Andrew Hundt, "The robot wants the higher score. It quickly learns the right behavior to get the
best reward.”


  Full Article




Motorists' Smartphones May Help Highways Bosses Keep
Roads Safe
University of Birmingham
October 25, 2020

Researchers at the U.K.’s University of Birmingham found that high-resolution three-axis
accelerometers and GPS tracking built into smartphones, along with an app, can provide useful
measures of road roughness for civil engineers. This "crowdsourced" data sent by motorists of how
their vehicle moves vertically in relation to the roadway could be used by road agencies to
generate a low-cost summary of the condition of the entire road network, evaluate and compare
generate a low cost summary of the condition of the entire road network, evaluate and compare
maintenance policies, and screen roads to identify and prioritize maintenance projects. Said the
university's Michael Burrow, "Vertical acceleration data from smartphones could be analyzed using
machine learning algorithms to enable [relative road roughness] to be predicted to a similar
accuracy as would be expected from a visual inspection, but with improved repeatability and
reproducibility."


  Full Article


ML Model Supports Safe, Accurate Decision-making for
Halifax Harbor
Dalhousie University (Canada)
Rebecca Rawcliffe
October 20, 2020

Working with ocean data analytics innovation platform DeepSense, researchers at Canada's
Dalhousie University have developed a machine learning (ML) system for predicting wind speed
and wave height, in order to inform safer, more accurate decision-making for the SmartAtlantic
Herring Cove Buoy platform. Said Melanie Nadeau of the Centre for Ocean Ventures and
Entrepreneurship, “The Smart Buoy platform hosts several ocean sensors and generates refined
forecasts that have become a crucial resource for marine users that enter the Halifax Harbour.”
Dalhousie’s Chris Widden said, “We took the main predictive variables of wind speed and wave
height, and data related to these variables collected by other smart buoys and land stations, to
think about how we can use machine learning to make predictions around this activity for the buoy
at Herring Cove. It’s novel as no one else seems to be making predictions like this from only one
or two replacement sensors.”


  Full Article




Technology Finds Long-Hidden Quakes, Possible Clues
About How Earthquakes Evolve
Stanford News
Josie Garthwaite
October 21, 2020

Stanford University scientists developed new algorithms that extract evidence of long-hidden
microquakes from massive seismic datasets. The Earthquake Transformer algorithm emulates how
human analysts holistically analyze a set of seismic "wiggles," then focuses on a small section of
interest. The Stanford team measured the algorithm’s performance using five weeks of data
recorded in the region of Japan impacted two decades ago by the Tottori earthquake and its
aftershocks. The algorithm detected 21,092 events—more than 2.5 times the number of quakes
detected manually—within 20 minutes, using data from just 18 of 57 stations originally used to
study the sequence. Said Stanford’s Gregory Beroza, “Earthquake monitoring using machine
learning in near-real time is coming very soon.”


  Full Article




Reimagining the Shape of Noise Leads to Improved
Molecular Models
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
Greta Lorge
October 20, 2020

Researchers at the Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory developed a mathematical concept
framework to model the presence of noise in data in a more realistic way. The researchers had
issues with the widely accepted view that experimental errors fall into a classic normal
distribution, such as the Gaussian bell curve, where close to 100% of observations fall within 3.5
standard deviations. They determined a more realistic curve has thicker "tails" due to rare but
predictable events. Said Berkeley Lab's Peter Zwart, "Including these slightly more realistic error
models in crystallographic target functions allows us to model the presence of what normally
might be called outliers in a more realistic way."


  Full Article
AI Reveals Hundreds of Millions of Trees in the Sahara
University of Copenhagen
October 20, 2020

Researchers at Denmark’s University of Copenhagen, along with international collaborators, used
artificial intelligence and detailed satellite imagery to count more than 1.8 billion trees and shrubs
in a 1.3-million-sq.km. area covering the western-most portions of the Sahara Desert, the Sahel
region, and the sub-humid zones of West Africa. This marks the first time that trees across a large
dryland region have been counted. The combination of detailed satellite imagery from the U.S.
National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) and deep learning helped researchers
determine that trees do grow in the Sahara Desert, counting millions of trees in the desert alone.
The university's Martin Brandt said the research is important because climate models generally do
not include trees outside of forested areas.


  Full Article
Researchers Extract Secret Key Used to Encrypt Intel
CPU Code
Ars Technica
Dan Goodin
October 28, 2020

An independent researcher, working with two researchers from security firm Positive Technologies,
extracted the secret key that encrypts updates to Intel central processing units (CPUs). Hackers
who got their hands on the key would be able to decrypt updates Intel issues to plug security
holes or update other aspects of chip operation. Independent researcher Maxim Goryachy said, "At
the moment, it is quite difficult to assess the security impact” of being able to obtain such a key.
Added Positive Technologies' Mark Ermolov, "For now, there's only one but very important
consequence: independent analysis of a microcode patch that was impossible until now."


  Full Article
Association for Computing Machinery

1601 Broadway, 10th Floor
New York, NY 10019-7434
1-800-342-6626
(U.S./Canada)



ACM Media Sales

If you are interested in advertising in ACM TechNews or other ACM
publications, please contact ACM Media Sales or (212) 626-0686, or visit
ACM Media for more information.




           To submit feedback about ACM TechNews, contact:
                         technews@hq.acm.org

                                Unsubscribe
