Benjamin Lis <bl2759@columbia.edu>

ACM TechNews, Friday, October 30, 2020
ACM TechNews <technews-editor@acm.org>
at 12:35 PM
To: Benjamin Lis <bl2759@columbia.edu>

Fri, Oct 30, 2020

Click here to view this online

MEMBERNET

ARCHIVES

CAREERNEWS

CONTACT US

Welcome to the October 30, 2020 edition of ACM TechNews, providing timely information
for IT
professionals three times a week.
ACM TechNews mobile apps are available for Android phones and tablets (click here) and
for
iPhones (click here) and iPads (click here).
To view "Headlines At A Glance," hit the link labeled "Click here to view this online" found
at the
top of the page in the html version. The online version now has a button at the top labeled
"Show
Headlines."

H

k

Rl

G

i C

t El

ti

Dt

Aft

Hacker Releases Georgia County Election Data After
Ransom Not Paid
The Wall Street Journal
Tawnell D. Hobbs
October 28, 2020
A computer hacker publicly released election-related files from Hall County, GA, after county
officials failed to pay a ransom. The hacker labeled the released data as "example files," which
generally are used to encourage ransom payment before more-compromising information is
made
public. A review of the DoppelPaymer ransomware group's website shows the hacked files
contain
voter names and registration numbers and an election-equipment inventory, among other things.
The county announced the ransomware attack on Oct. 7, but has not commented about the
amount of ransom demanded. Said Brett Callow of cybersecurity firm Emsisoft, "What, if any,
other data the criminals obtained during the attack is something only they and, perhaps, Hall
County know.”

Full Article
*May Require Paid Registration

The Algorithm That Could Get You Back in the Office
Bloomberg
Andrew Zaleski
October 27, 2020
As company offices reopen, some are using software to help them shuffle employees, schedule
meetings, map office hot spots, and practice social distancing. Maptician detects areas of high
transmission risk, such as desks placed too close together, and allows co-workers to view the
map
to see if they were ever seated near a colleague who tested positive for Covid-19. Employees of
commercial real estate brokerage SquareFoot developed an algorithm to determine work
rotations
for a company’s teams. Salesforce's Work.com has developed a software platform that includes a
shift-management algorithm that calculates potential building bottlenecks based on the number
of
projected workers.

Full Article

Scientists Used 3D Printer to Create World's Smallest
Boat
CNN
Amy Woodyatt
October 28, 2020
Researchers at Leiden University in the Netherlands created the world's smallest boat using an
electron microscope and a high-resolution three-dimensional (3D) printer. The 30-micrometerlong boat was developed as part of an investigation into synthetic, self-propelled microswimmers
that could travel inside the human body to administer medical treatments, among other things. As
part of the study, the researchers created objects as small as 4 micrometers. Said Leiden's
Daniela Kraft, "We hope to learn about what is now a good design principle for creating a little
drug delivery vehicle.”

Full Article

Raptor-Inspired Drone with Morphing Wing, Tail
EPFL (Switzerland)
October 28, 2020
A next-generation drone developed by engineers at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology
Lausanne (EPFL) has a feathered wing and tail for increased flight agility. The northern
goshawk, a
type of raptor (bird of prey), served as the inspiration for the drone. Artificial feathers allow the
drone to adjust the shape of its wing and tail, but a propeller is used for forward thrust, which is
more efficient than flapping wings. Said EPFL's Enrico Ajanic, "Our design extracts principles
of
avian agile flight to create a drone that can approximate the flight performance of raptors, but
also tests the biological hypothesis that a morphing tail plays an important role in achieving
faster
turns, decelerations, and even slow flight."

Full Article

Researchers Break Magnetic Memory Speed Record
Berkeley News
October 27, 2020
An international research team led by the French National Centre for Scientific Research
developed
a new method for magnetization switching that is almost 100 times faster than state-of-the-art
spintronic devices. The researchers achieved magnetization switching, or writing information
into
magnetic memory, by directing an optical pump at a photoconductive switch to convert light into
six-picosecond electrical pulses that were guided toward a magnet. This technique could pave the
way for ultrafast magnetic memory for computer chips that would retain information even when
power is off. Said the University of California, Berkeley's Jeffrey Bokor, "Such a high-speed,
lowenergy spintronic device can potentially tackle the performance limitations of current processorlevel memory systems, and it could also be used for logic applications."

Full Article

FBI Warns Ransomware Assault Threatens U.S.
Healthcare System
Associated Press
Frank Bajak
October 29, 2020

The U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation, Department of Homeland Security, and Department of
Health and Human Services issued a joint alert this week that they had "credible information of
an
increased and imminent cybercrime threat to U.S. hospitals and healthcare providers" in an effort
to cause "data theft and disruption of healthcare services." The alert came amid a spike in cases
of
Covid-19 nationwide. At least five U.S. hospitals were hit by the ransomware attacks this week.
Attacks by an Eastern European criminal gang involved the Ryuk strain of ransomware, which
Microsoft has been working to counter. Hold Security's Alex Holden said the cybercriminals are
demanding ransoms of more than $10 million per target, and have discussed plans on the dark

web to attack more than 400 hospitals, clinics, and other medical facilities.

Full Article

Dog Training Methods Help JHU Teach Robots to Learn
New Tricks
Johns Hopkins Hub
Jill Rosen
October 26, 2020
Computer scientists at Johns Hopkins University used positive reinforcement to show a robot
how
to teach itself new tasks quickly. The training technique, often used to change a dog's behavior,
helped the robot improve its skills in a matter of days, rather than the month it previously would
have taken. The researchers used a reward system to help the robot learn from its mistakes.
When it came to stacking blocks, the robot quickly determined it would earn high points for
correct
behaviors and zero points for failing to grasp a block or knocking over a stack. Said Johns
Hopkins'
Andrew Hundt, "The robot wants the higher score. It quickly learns the right behavior to get the
best reward.”

Full Article

Motorists' Smartphones May Help Highways Bosses Keep
Roads Safe
University of Birmingham
October 25, 2020
Researchers at the U.K.’s University of Birmingham found that high-resolution three-axis
accelerometers and GPS tracking built into smartphones, along with an app, can provide useful
measures of road roughness for civil engineers. This "crowdsourced" data sent by motorists of
how
their vehicle moves vertically in relation to the roadway could be used by road agencies to
generate a low-cost summary of the condition of the entire road network, evaluate and compare

generate a low cost summary of the condition of the entire road network, evaluate and compare
maintenance policies, and screen roads to identify and prioritize maintenance projects. Said the
university's Michael Burrow, "Vertical acceleration data from smartphones could be analyzed
using
machine learning algorithms to enable [relative road roughness] to be predicted to a similar
accuracy as would be expected from a visual inspection, but with improved repeatability and
reproducibility."

Full Article

